Andersson, N., et al. (2017). "Design and control of integrated chromatography column sequences." Biotechnology Progress 33(4): 923-930.
	To increase the productivity in biopharmaceutical production, a natural step is to introduce integrated continuous biomanufacturing which leads to fewer buffer and storage tanks, smaller sizes of integrated unit operations, and full automation of the operation. The main contribution of this work is to illustrate a methodology for design and control of a downstream process based on integrated column sequences. For small scale production, for example, pre-clinical studies, integrated column sequences can be implemented on a single chromatography system. This makes for a very efficient drug development platform. The proposed methodology is composed of four steps and is governed by a set of tools, that is presented, that makes the transition from batch separations to a complete integrated separation sequence as easy as possible. This methodology, its associated tools and the physical implementation is presented and illustrated on a case study where the target protein is separated from impurities through an integrated four column sequence. This article shows that the design and control of an integrated column sequence was successfully implemented for a tertiary protein separation problem. © 2017 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Biotechnol. Prog., 33:923–930, 2017. © 2017 American Institute of Chemical Engineers

Arnold, L., et al. (2019). "Implementation of Fully Integrated Continuous Antibody Processing: Effects on Productivity and COGm." Biotechnology Journal 14(2).
	The changing landscape of the biopharmaceutical market is driving a paradigm shift toward continuous manufacturing. To date, integrated continuous bioprocessing has not been realized as enabling technologies are nascent. In this work, a fully integrated continuous process is successfully demonstrated from pilot scale bioreactor to drug substance. Comparable product quality is observed between the continuous process and a 500 L fed-batch conventional process. The continuous process generated material at a rate of 1 kg of purified mAb every 4 days, achieving a 4.6-fold increase in productivity compared to the fed-batch process A plant throughput analysis using BioSolve software shows that a fed-batch facility with 4 × 12 500 L stainless steel bioreactors and purification train of the corresponding scale can be replaced by a continuous facility consisting of 5 × 2000 L single use bioreactors and smaller purification train, with a cost reduction of 15%. © 2018 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Bisschops, M. (2015). BioSMB Technology as an Enabler for a Fully Continuous Disposable Biomanufacturing Platform. Continuous Processing in Pharmaceutical Manufacturing: 35-52.
	This chapter reviews which of the individual building blocks are needed to assemble an integrated continuous bioprocessing platform. In addition to this, the opportunities to combine continuous processing and disposable bioprocessing solutions are addressed. The chapter focuses mainly on the downstream processing section of the production process. More in particular, the impact of the recent advancements in multicolumn chromatography processes is discussed. In order to provide a practical way to implement multicolumn chromatography in the biopharmaceutical industries, Tarpon Biosystems has developed the BioSMB Technology that relies on a fully disposable flow path. From regulatory point of view, there is no objection to continuous processing. Based on a preliminary technical analysis of continuous manufacturing technologies, there seems to be little or no reason to believe that the hurdles will be significantly larger than for batch processes. © 2015 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA. All rights reserved.

Dutta, A. K., et al. (2017). "Continuous countercurrent tangential chromatography for mixed mode post-capture operations in monoclonal antibody purification." Journal of Chromatography A 1511: 37-44.
	Continuous Countercurrent Tangential Chromatography (CCTC) has been shown to demonstrate significant advantages over column chromatography including higher productivity, lower operational pressure, disposable flow path, and lower resin use. Previous applications of CCTC have been limited to initial capture of monoclonal antibodies (mAb) from clarified cell culture harvest. In this present article, a CCTC system was designed and tested for a post-capture antibody purification step. Mixed mode cation exchange-hydrophobic interaction chromatography resins with two different particle sizes were used to reduce host cell protein (HCP), leached protein A, DNA, and aggregates from a mAb stream after a protein A operation. Product output from CCTC was obtained at a steady-state concentration in sharp contrast to the periodic output of product in multi-column systems. The results show up to 101 g of mAb/L of resin/hr productivity, which is 10× higher than in a batch column. A 5% yield increase (95% with CCTC vs. 90% in batch column) resulted from optimizing elution pH within a narrow operational window (pH 4–4.5). Contaminant removal was found to be similar to conventional column performance. Data obtained with the smaller particle size resin showed faster binding kinetics leading to reduced CCTC system volume and increased productivity. Buffer and water usage were modeled to show potential for utilization of in-line mixing and buffer tank volume reduction. The experimental results were used to perform a scale up exercise that predicts a compact CCTC flow path for 500 and 2000 L batches using commercially available membranes. These results demonstrate the potential of using CCTC for post-capture operations as an alternative to packed bed chromatography, and provide a framework for the design and development of an integrated continuous bioprocessing platform based on CCTC technology. © 2017 Elsevier B.V.

Fisher, A. C., et al. (2019). "The Current Scientific and Regulatory Landscape in Advancing Integrated Continuous Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing." Trends in Biotechnology 37(3): 253-267.
	There is a trend across the pharmaceutical sector toward process intensification and continuous manufacturing to produce small-molecule drugs or biotechnology products. For biotechnology products, advancing the manufacturing technology behind upstream and downstream processes has the potential to reduce product shortages and variability, allow for production flexibility, simplify scale-up procedures, improve product quality, reduce facility footprints, increase productivity, and reduce production costs. On the upstream side of biotechnology manufacturing, continuous perfusion cell cultures are fairly well established. However, truly integrated continuous biomanufacturing requires the uninterrupted connection of continuous unit operations (upstream and downstream) with no isolated intermediate or hold steps occurring between them. This work examines the current scientific and regulatory landscape surrounding the implementation of integrated continuous biomanufacturing. © 2018 Elsevier Ltd

Flores, A., et al. (2019). "Recent trends in integrated bioprocesses: aiding and expanding microbial biofuel/biochemical production." Current Opinion in Biotechnology 57: 82-87.
	Microbial biosynthesis of fuels and chemicals represents a promising route for their renewable production. Product toxicity, however, represents a common challenge limiting the efficacy of this approach. Integrated bioprocesses incorporating in situ product separation are poised to help address this intrinsic problem, but suffer their own unique shortcomings. To improve and expand the utility of this versatile bioprocessing strategy, recent innovations have focused on developing more effective separation materials and novel process configurations, as well as adapting designs to accommodate semi-continuous modes of operation. As a result, integrated bioprocesses are finding new applications to aid the biosynthesis of an ever-growing list of bioproducts. Emerging applications, meanwhile, are exploring the further expansion of such designs to interface microbial and chemical catalysts, leading to new and versatile routes for the one-pot synthesis of an even greater diversity of renewable products. © 2019 Elsevier Ltd

Gjoka, X., et al. (2017). "Platform for integrated continuous bioprocessing." BioPharm International 30(7): 26-32.
	Continuous processing of 100 g of monoclonal antibody in 24 hours has been demonstrated using lab-scale equipment. © 2017 UBM. All rights reserved.

Godawat, R., et al. (2012). "Periodic counter-current chromatography - design and operational considerations for integrated and continuous purification of proteins." Biotechnology Journal 7(12): 1496-1508.
	Integrated and continuous processing of recombinant proteins offers several advantages over batch or semi-batch processing used traditionally in the biotechnology industry. This paper presents a theoretical and practical approach for designing a periodic counter-current chromatography (PCC) operation as a continuous capture purification step that is integrated with a perfusion cell culture process. The constraints for continuous and optimal PCC operation govern the selection of residence time and number of columns. The flexibility available in PCC design for selection of these parameters is dictated by the binding characteristics of the target protein on the capture resin. Using an empirical model for the protein breakthrough curve, analytical solutions to determine these conditions were derived and verified with experimental results for three different proteins: two relatively unstable proteins (recombinant enzymes) and a relatively stable protein (monoclonal antibody). The advantages of a continuous downstream capture step are highlighted for the three case studies in comparison with the existing batch chromatography processes. The use of PCC leads to improvements in process economics due to higher resin capacity utilization and correspondingly lower buffer consumption. Furthermore, integrated and continuous bioprocessing results in a smaller facility footprint by elimination of harvest hold vessels and clarification, as well as by reducing the capture column size by one to two orders of magnitude. © 2012 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Godawat, R., et al. (2015). "End-to-end integrated fully continuous production of recombinant monoclonal antibodies." Journal of Biotechnology 213: 13-19.
	
Holzberg, T. R., et al. (2018). "Sensors for biomanufacturing process development: facilitating the shift from batch to continuous manufacturing." Current Opinion in Chemical Engineering 22: 115-127.
	The biopharmaceutical industry has traditionally utilized batch manufacturing strategies for production, but continuous manufacturing has been explored as an alternative production method in recent years because of the potential financial and quality benefits. The complex nature of this manufacturing method requires robust online process analytical technology (PAT) that can effectively characterize continuous processes at the development scale (0.1–100 mL for process scouting devices (PSDs) and 100 mL–10 L for bench-scale development) as well as sensors that can monitor and control them at the commercial scale (hundreds to thousands of liters). Both established and new bioprocessing sensor technologies for characterizing and monitoring batch and continuous bioprocesses are explored in this review and are evaluated for their potential use in continuous bioprocess development and in commercial-scale production. Not all of these sensors can be integrated with control systems for end-to-end continuous bioprocesses at the commercial scale, but they can currently be used to gain a better understanding of new continuous processes at the development scale in order to make the scale-up process more data-driven, improving process understanding. © 2018 Elsevier Ltd

Hori, K. and H. Unno (2019). Integrated production and separation. Comprehensive Biotechnology: 651-662.
	Bioprocessing has been expected as a promising production tool for the new era. However, the processes have been confronted with various difficulties, mostly cost ineffectiveness. To overcome this weakness, the process integration has been proposed to increase the process economy and investigated intensively. In this article, the conceptual frame of the process integration is presented, and the integration methods are classified in view of bioprocess development. Successful combination of bioreactors with traditional separation techniques such as extraction, adsorption, etc., and application of membrane technology is overviewed. Several ideas for the integration by the use of biotechnological principle are also discussed. © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Hummel, J., et al. (2019). "Modeling the Downstream Processing of Monoclonal Antibodies Reveals Cost Advantages for Continuous Methods for a Broad Range of Manufacturing Scales." Biotechnology Journal 14(2).
	The biopharmaceutical industry is evolving in response to changing market conditions, including increasing competition and growing pressures to reduce costs. Single-use (SU) technologies and continuous bioprocessing have attracted attention as potential facilitators of cost-optimized manufacturing for monoclonal antibodies. While disposable bioprocessing has been adopted at many scales of manufacturing, continuous bioprocessing has yet to reach the same level of implementation. In this study, the cost of goods of Pall Life Science's integrated, continuous bioprocessing (ICB) platform is modeled, along with that of purification processes in stainless-steel and SU batch formats. All three models include costs associated with downstream processing only. Evaluation of the models across a broad range of clinical and commercial scenarios reveal that the cost savings gained by switching from stainless-steel to SU batch processing are often amplified by continuous operation. The continuous platform exhibits the lowest cost of goods across 78% of all scenarios modeled here, with the SU batch process having the lowest costs in the rest of the cases. The relative savings demonstrated by the continuous process are greatest at the highest feed titers and volumes. These findings indicate that existing and imminent continuous technologies and equipment can become key enablers for more cost effective manufacturing of biopharmaceuticals. © 2018 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Kaltenbrunner, O. (2018). Points to Consider for Design and Control of Continuous Bioprocessing. Biopharmaceutical Processing: Development, Design, and Implementation of Manufacturing Processes: 741-754.
	The primary objective for implementing continuous processing is cost reduction of operations in the production of biopharmaceuticals, motivated by high production costs and the promise of significant productivity gains from continuous operations. However, changing the currently prevailing production technology from batch operation to continuous operation will have broad implications on manufacturing and quality systems. The realization of integrated continuous operations in large scale biopharmaceutical manufacturing needs to take existing constraints into account. Regulatory expectation and quality procedures and their impact on the design of operations have to be respected. Operational challenges like supply flexibility, process scale turndown, equipment complexity, fault recovery, and aseptic sampling have to be addressed. Utilization of "single use" equipment, equipment utilization, and the application of process analytical technologies have impact of process and facility design. © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Löfgren, A., et al. (2018). "Designing an Autonomous Integrated Downstream Sequence From a Batch Separation Process − An Industrial Case Study." Biotechnology Journal 13(4).
	This work is a proof of concept of how a sequence of industrial batch separation steps together are used to form an integrated autonomous downstream process. The sequence in this case study consisted of an anion chromatography step, virus inactivation and finally a hydrophobic chromatography step. Moving from batch to integrated separation minimizes hold-up times, storage tanks, and required equipment. The conversion from batch to integrated mode is achieved by extracting operating points and separation data from batch chromatograms. The integrated separation process is realized on an ÄKTA Pure controlled by an open research software called Orbit, making it possible to operate complex process configurations including multiple steps. The results from this case study is the principle and method of the steps taken to automation, achieving a more continuous and efficient downstream process. © 2018 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Löfgren, A., et al. (2019). "Optimization of integrated chromatography sequences for purification of biopharmaceuticals." Biotechnology Progress 35(6).
	With continued development of integrated and continuous downstream purification processes, tuning and optimization become increasingly complicated with additional parameters and codependent variables over the sequence. This article offers a novel perspective of nonlinear optimization of integrated sequences with regard to individual column sizes, flow rates, and scheduling. The problem setup itself is a versatile tool to be used in downstream design which is demonstrated in two case studies: a four-column integrated sequence and a continuously loaded twin-capture setup with five columns. © 2019 The Authors. Biotechnology Progress published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

Lute, S., et al. (2020). "Development of small-scale models to understand the impact of continuous downstream bioprocessing on integrated virus filtration." Biotechnology Progress.
	We designed small-scale virus filtration models to investigate the impact of the extended process times and dynamic product streams present in continuous manufacturing. Our data show that the Planova 20N and BioEX virus filters are capable of effectively removing bacteriophage PP7 (>4 log) when run continuously for up to 4 days. Additionally, both Planova 20N and BioEX filters were able to successfully process a mock elution peak of increased protein, salt, and bacteriophage concentrations with only an increase in filtration pressure observed during the higher protein concentration peak. These experiments demonstrated that small-scale viral clearance studies can be designed to model a continuous virus filtration step with specific process parameters. © 2020 The Authors. Biotechnology Progress published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

Mayrhofer, P. and R. Kunert (2020). Screening of media supplements for high-performance perfusion cultures by design of experiment. Methods in Molecular Biology. 2095: 27-39.
	Perfusion is considered as the preferable unit operation mode for fully integrated continuous bioprocessing. However, the inherent complex process control, long process development times, and lack of suitable scale-down models for high-throughput screening are reasons why perfusion processes are still not routinely applied in cell culture technology. Advantages of perfusion are maintenance of a consistent cellular environment, a constant high-quality product flow, enhanced volumetric bioreactor productivity, and small lab footprint. Here, we provide guidelines for screening different proprietary but commercially available HyClone™ Cell Boost™ supplements in a Design of Experiment (DoE) approach to spike the HyClone™ CDM4NS0 basal media for enhanced product titers in small-scale TubeSpin models. These surrogate semi-perfusion cultures were successfully realized by a daily complete media exchange routine resulting in high viable cell densities for extended time periods at minimal media consumption. This technique was leveraged to define the potential of different perfusion media formulations. © Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2020.

Pinto, N. D. S., et al. (2020). "Impact of micro and macroporous TFF membranes on product sieving and chromatography loading for perfusion cell culture." Biotechnology and Bioengineering 117(1): 117-124.
	Bioprocess intensification can be achieved through high cell density perfusion cell culture with continuous protein capture integration. Protein passage and cell retention are commonly accomplished using tangential flow filtration systems consisting of microporous membranes. Significant challenges, including low efficiency and decaying product sieving over time, are commonly observed in these cell retention devices. Here, we demonstrate that a macroporous membrane overcomes the product sieving challenges when comparing to several other membrane chemistries and pore sizes within the microporous range. This way, variable chromatography column loading is avoided. The macroporous membrane yielded a 13,000 L/m2 volumetric throughput. The membrane's cut-off size results in an increased permeate turbidity due to particles passage, such as cell debris, through pores ranging from 1 to 4 µm. In addition, successful chromatography column plugging mitigation was achieved by employing depth filtration before the chromatographic step. Depth filtration volumetric throughputs were between 600 and 1,000 L/m2. Combing a macroporous cell retention device with a depth filter not only provided an alternative to address the challenge of undesired long protein residence times in the bioreactor due to product sieving decay, but also exhibited a throughput increase, making the integration of multicolumn capture chromatography with a perfusion cell culture a more robust process. © 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Rathore, A. S., et al. (2015). "Continuous Processing for Production of Biopharmaceuticals." Preparative Biochemistry and Biotechnology 45(8): 836-849.
	The merits of continuous processing over batch processing are well known in the manufacturing industry. Continuous operation results in shorter process times due to omission of hold steps, higher productivity due to reduced shutdown costs, and lowers labor requirement. Over the past decade, there has been an increasing interest in continuous processing within the bioprocessing community, specifically those involved in production of biotherapeutics. Continuous operations in upstream processing (perfusion) have been performed for decades. However, recent development of continuous downstream operations has led the industry to envisage an integrated bioprocessing platform for efficient production. The regulators, key players in the biotherapeutic industry, have also expressed their interest and willingness in this migration from the traditional batch processing. This paper aims to review major developments in continuous bioprocessing in the past decade. A discussion of pros and cons of the different proposed approaches has also been presented. © 2015 Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.

Shamashkin, M., et al. (2013). "A tandem laboratory scale protein purification process using Protein A affinity and anion exchange chromatography operated in a weak partitioning mode." Biotechnology and Bioengineering 110(10): 2655-2663.
	A significant consequence of scaling up production of high titer monoclonal antibody (mAb) processes in existing facilities is the generation of in-process pools that exceed the capacity of storage vessels. A semi-continuous downstream process where columns and filters are linked and operated in tandem would eliminate the need for intermediate holding tanks. This study is a bench-scale demonstration of the feasibility of a tandem process for the purification of mAbs employing an affinity Protein A capture step, followed by a flow-through anion-exchange (AEX) step with the possibility of adding an in-line virus filtration step (VF). All three steps were linked sequentially and operated as one continuous process using an ÄKTA FPLC equipped with two pumps and a system of valves and bypasses that allowed the components to be engaged at different stages of the process. The AEX column was operated in a weak partitioning (WP) mode enabled by a precise in-line titration of Protein A effluent. In order to avoid complex control schemes and facilitate validation, quality and robustness were built into the system through selection of buffers based on thermodynamic and empirical models. The tandem system utilized the simplest possible combination of valves, pumps, controls, and automation, so that it could easily be implemented in a clinical or commercial production facility. Linking the purification steps in a tandem process is expected to generate savings in time and production costs and also reduce the size of quality systems due to reduced documentation requirements, microbial sampling, and elimination of hold time validation. © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Walther, J., et al. (2015). "The business impact of an integrated continuous biomanufacturing platform for recombinant protein production." Journal of Biotechnology 213: 3-12.
	The biotechnology industry primarily uses batch technologies to manufacture recombinant proteins. The natural evolution of other industries has shown that transitioning from batch to continuous processing can yield significant benefits. A quantitative understanding of these benefits is critical to guide the implementation of continuous processing. In this manuscript, we use process economic modeling and Monte Carlo simulations to evaluate an integrated continuous biomanufacturing (ICB) platform and conduct risk-based valuation to generate a probabilistic range of net-present values (NPVs). For a specific ten-year product portfolio, the ICB platform reduces average cost by 55% compared to conventional batch processing, considering both capital and operating expenses. The model predicts that these savings can further increase by an additional 25% in situations with higher-than-expected product demand showing the upward potential of the ICB platform. The ICB platform achieves these savings and corresponding flexibility mainly due to process intensification in both upstream and downstream unit operations. This study demonstrates the promise of continuous bioprocessing while also establishing a novel framework to quantify financial benefits of other platform process technologies. © 2015 Elsevier B.V.

Warikoo, V., et al. (2012). "Integrated continuous production of recombinant therapeutic proteins." Biotechnology and Bioengineering 109(12): 3018-3029.
	In the current environment of diverse product pipelines, rapidly fluctuating market demands and growing competition from biosimilars, biotechnology companies are increasingly driven to develop innovative solutions for highly flexible and cost-effective manufacturing. To address these challenging demands, integrated continuous processing, comprised of high-density perfusion cell culture and a directly coupled continuous capture step, can be used as a universal biomanufacturing platform. This study reports the first successful demonstration of the integration of a perfusion bioreactor and a four-column periodic counter-current chromatography (PCC) system for the continuous capture of candidate protein therapeutics. Two examples are presented: (1) a monoclonal antibody (model of a stable protein) and (2) a recombinant human enzyme (model of a highly complex, less stable protein). In both cases, high-density perfusion CHO cell cultures were operated at a quasi-steady state of 50-60×106cells/mL for more than 60 days, achieving volumetric productivities much higher than current perfusion or fed-batch processes. The directly integrated and automated PCC system ran uninterrupted for 30 days without indications of time-based performance decline. The product quality observed for the continuous capture process was comparable to that for a batch-column operation. Furthermore, the integration of perfusion cell culture and PCC led to a dramatic decrease in the equipment footprint and elimination of several non-value-added unit operations, such as clarification and intermediate hold steps. These findings demonstrate the potential of integrated continuous bioprocessing as a universal platform for the manufacture of various kinds of therapeutic proteins. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Zelger, M., et al. (2016). "Real-time monitoring of protein precipitation in a tubular reactor for continuous bioprocessing." Process Biochemistry 51(10): 1610-1621.
	Real time monitoring is critical to apply continuous bioprocesses successfully. This requires the integration of flow cells into continuous reactors. Potential continuous steps include protein precipitation, used in plasma purification, antibody enrichment and virus inactivation. Consequently we developed real-time monitoring of protein precipitation in a tubular reactor by pH, conductivity, turbidity and image processing. Feasibility studies were then performed for each monitoring method. Since integrated flow cells can affect time to reach steady state due to its inherent residence time distribution (RTD) property, we first determined flow behavior in flow cell is best described by laminar flow in pipes model, in order to find acceptable levels of volumetric flowrates that is not impractically high. Separately, we found pH highly important for protein precipitation while conductivity has high sensitivity to changes in buffer content. Turbidity signals are lumped values of floc properties while image processing can separately measure flocs by area, size and count. Also, the time and behavior to reach steady state amid changing precipitating conditions was investigated, to select for correct collection times to ensure high product quality. Lastly, we report the technical considerations in reactor design, construction and operation. © 2016 Elsevier Ltd

Zydney, A. L. (2015). "Perspectives on integrated continuous bioprocessing - opportunities and challenges." Current Opinion in Chemical Engineering 10: 8-13.
	Biopharmaceuticals are currently produced almost entirely using batch operations. Integrated continuous processes have the potential to revolutionize bioprocessing, leading to significant reductions in manufacturing costs and facility size while improving product quality through enhanced uniformity in the microenvironment. This paper examines the potential opportunities and challenges in implementing continuous processes for the production of high value biological products. Although regulatory agencies seem highly open to continuous processing, there are significant technical and practical issues that must be addressed to move the industry in this direction, including the development of effective alternatives to traditional downstream processing operations. Continuous processing could provide unique opportunities for the production and delivery of low-cost biopharmaceuticals for solution of major global health challenges in the coming decades. © 2015 Elsevier Ltd.

